our global challenges are inherently
sciencebase and have this disconnect
between scientists and the public is
it's a problem so if we can bridge that
through stories through speaking about
our common humanity I think that's the
first step I'm really excited about this
event amante is a nonprofit that it
makes people from the community to tell
personal stories on stage without notes
we're all scientists here right science
Phil is an idea that was hatched a
couple months ago we thought it'd be so
great to have scientists connect with
the public in a way that really humanize
science and admitting failure is one of
the things that makes us human it took
issue with my theory my my hypotheses so
why not have an event focus runs
storytelling about humanizing that for
scientists and non-scientists again a
great story told in the presence of
other people can reduce the distance
between those people 20
we had 400 people trying to get tickets
for 200 spots it's sold out in less than
an hour I was a little unsure about
coming to this affair what oral
storytelling can do is it can bind
people together in the moment you can
see this is a series of failures which
lead to the progression of knowledge i
would estimate that of all the
experiments i take part in and do ninety
five percent are failures in that sort
of sense so for the past two years I've
been conducting a program evaluation
presenting my story as an exhilarating
experience it was beautiful it was also
a little nerve-racking he seemed to kind
of withdraw withdraw into himself look
down at his hands I don't know I don't
know needless to say my data wasn't very
good that day I think the idea that if
you fail you kind of keep it to yourself
is part of the culture of science
they're really sharing it you realize
it's a common experience every story
that we heard tonight had an upside to
it something happened it seemed
devastating and then we move on from it
that is success the cool part about this
event is that it's a science experiment
in itself we are studying the reactions
of the audience and then quantifying
that and publishing it that in a
peer-reviewed paper making it science
science illiteracy is going up within
the general public and that's really
worrisome I hope is that with this event
we get closer to the goal of engaging
people and a lifelong learning process
of science and making it relatable
that's really what it's about
you